# Clip-Nexus

## Overview (**In-Development**)

A backend web app for ClipNexus where users can stream videos

* [Models Structure Link](https://app.eraser.io/workspace/YtPqZ1VogxGy1jzIDkzj)

## Learnings
1. [GitIgnore Generator](https://mrkandreev.name/snippets/gitignore-generator/) a webapp allowing us to generate `.gitignore` file (or its content) based on the development environment, for ex: "node.js", saveing our time and energy. FYI, I've also copy-pasted `.gitignore` content from the same webapp.
2. Using [Prettier](https://www.npmjs.com/package/prettier) for code formatting and mostly to avoid merge-conflicts, by doing proper [configuration](https://github.com/VinayNoogler000/ClipNexus-YT-Clone/blob/main/.prettierrc).
3. Express App has it's own event listeners which can be defined using `app.on()` method, where the first argument will the event name and the 2nd argument will the callback to be executed to handle the triggered event.
4. In Node.js runtime environment, we're provided with `process` object, which is the reference to the current running process in Node.js. This `process` object has a method called `exit()` which syncrhonously exits the process, irrespective of whether or not there are any pending asynchronous process(s) in the event loop or not. The `exit()` takes a status code (number type) as an argument which gets printed on the terminal when the process is exited. Normally, upon completion of every process in Node.js this exit code is printed on the terminal, but this `exit()` method allows us to do it manually and syncrhonously at any point of time in the program/process. If we don't pass any status code as arg to the `exit()` then the default "success code" is `0` or the whatever value is of the `process.exitCode` property, if set. Mostly, we don't use `process.exit()` in programs, especially asynchronous operations, rather we just set the `process.exitCode` property, and let the operation to be completed normally and exited with the set exit-status-code.
5. Importing `dotenv` and configuring it in "ES Modules (Module JS)" file organizing system, which is a modern way in both browsers and modern Node.js. Also, learnt about passing `dotenv/config` by using `-r` flag on [ClipNexus's](https://github.com/VinayNoogler000/ClipNexus-YT-Clone/blob/main) `dev` script (mentioned in [package.json](https://github.com/VinayNoogler000/ClipNexus-YT-Clone/blob/main/package.json)) as `experimental-json-modules`.
6. Instlallation and Configuration of `CORS Middleware` by using its almost all options, for security and performance improvement. Also, learnt that using this middleware doesn't blocks Client-HTTP-Requests from disallowed origins, rather it clearly tells the browser whether the server's responses can be read by javascript (for allowed origins), or cannot read (for disallowed origins), which means the server will still be able to receive and respond to all the requests. So, in other words we can say that `CORS Policy` is browser's way of protecting the data in server's response from malicious activities by the user/client (who sent the request), and also, kinda, protecting the user (or its device) from malicious data in server's response.
7. We can limit the size of data we want in JSON or URL-Encoded form in the HTTP-Request by using `{limit: [size]}` and passing it as an argument to the `app.use(express.json({limit: "16kb"}))`. Also learnt that when we pass `{extended: true}` to the `app.use(express.urlencoded([➡️here⬅️]))`, then it just means that data in URL which was encoded to JS object can now also consists of Nested Objects. At last, to parse Cookies and perform CRUD ops. in it we use `cookie-parser` library.
8. In any MongoDB collection, if we want to search documents based of its specific properties, like `userName` property of documents/objects in `users` collections, then we set the `index: true` property when creating model using mongoose, to optimize the searching functionality. But, setting the property `index` to `true` is resource heavy, so we should be careful about it, and only set for those properties of documents/objects in collections, which we're going to use often for searching the documents/objects, else ignore it, as the searching operation can still be performed.
9. For Pagination in MongoDB, there's a plugin for mongoose called `mongoose-aggregate-paginate-v2` which can be used to perform pagination in MongoDB, and it also provides a lot of options for customization. 
10. For encrypting the password of users, we can use `bcrypt` library which provides a method called `hash()` which takes the password and a salt (number of rounds) as arguments and returns the hashed password. And to compare the hashed password with the plain text password, we can use `compare()` method of `bcrypt` library.
11. For generating JWT tokens, we can use `jsonwebtoken` library which provides a method called `sign()` which takes the payload (data to be stored in token), secret key and options as arguments and returns the generated token. And to verify the token, we can use `verify()` method of `jsonwebtoken` library.
12. Learnt the proper, professional or industry-standard way of configuring Cloudinary, then using it to Upload files (images, audios and videos) to the Cloudinary's cloud storage by using `cloudinary` library's `uploader.upload()` method,then deleting the locally stored uploaded file syncrhonously after uploading it to the cloud, using `fs` module's `unlinkSync()` method to save the storage space in our local machine.
13. For handling uploaded files in Sever (Express), we can use `express-fileupload` or `multer` library (current). Then learnt the proper and industry-standard way of easily configuring `multer` library to handle file uploads by using both `diskStorage` and `memoryStorage` storage engines, and then using it as a middleware in the route handler to handle the file uploads.
14. Proper and industry-standard way of defining routes and route-handlers in Express by using `express.Router()`, and then importing & using the router in the main server file (app.js).
15. Defining Controllers for handling the logic of route-handlers, by using `asyncHandler` custom utility function, in a proper and industry-standard way, to handle the errors in asynchronous operations in route-handlers, and also to avoid the use of try-catch blocks in every route-handler.
16. To get the URL of a local file in Node.js of type ES-Modules, we can use `import.meta.url` which returns the URL of the current module file, and then we can use `fileURLToPath()` method of `url` module to convert the URL to a normal absolute file path (i.e, removing the `file://` from the URL and converting it to a normal file path), and then we can use `dirname()` method of `path` module to get the directory name of the file, which is the absolute path of the directory where the file is located. This way we can get the absolute path of the current module file and its directory, which can be used for various purposes like reading files, and telling the Multer's `diskStorage` engine where to store the uploaded files, etc.
17. Not to declare/invoke "next()" in the `pre` middleware's callback if defined using async-await syntax, because it will automatically move to the next middleware after the completion of the asynchronous operation in the `pre` middleware. Whereas, we can declare/invoke "next()" in the `pre` middleware's callback if defined using normal function syntax, to move to the next middleware after the completion of the synchronous operation or asynchronous operation (by using promise methods) in the `pre` middleware.
18. Difference between Access Token and Refresh Token is that Access Token is used to access the protected resources (APIs) of the server by User Authentication and Authorization process, and it has a short expiry time (like 15 minutes), whereas Refresh Token is used to generate a new Access Token after the expiry of the old one, and it has a long expiry time (like 7 days) than Access Tokens. So, when the Access Token expires, the client can use the Refresh Token to get a new Access Token without having to log-in again, which provides a better user experience. Also, we should store the Refresh Token in a secure place (like HttpOnly Cookies or Database) to prevent it from being accessed by malicious scripts. We can only use the Access Token to access the protected resources of the server, and we cannot use the Refresh Token to access the protected resources, it can only be used to get a new Access Token. So, in other words, we can say that Access Token is like a key to access the protected resources, and Refresh Token is like a spare key to get a new key when the old one expires. It's not compulsory to use Refresh Tokens in every application, rather we can just use Access Tokens for authentication and authorization, but it's a good modern practice to use them for better security and user experience.
19. Most common Cookie-Options are `httpOnly` and `secure`, where `httpOnly` option is used to prevent the cookie (sent from sever in HTTP response header) from being accessed by client-side JavaScript using `document.cookie`, which helps in preventing Cross-Site Scripting (XSS) attacks, and `secure` option is used to ensure that the client can only send the cookie to the server over HTTPS only, which helps in preventing Man-in-the-Middle (MITM) attacks. Hence, both are used for security purposes, and it's a good practice to use both options for cookies that contain sensitive information (like Access Tokens and Refresh Tokens).
20. Created a custom "verifyJWT()" middleware to verify the JWT token sent by the client in the HTTP request as cookies or headers, to allow or deny access to the protected resources (APIs) of the server based on the verification of the token, and also to get the user information from the token and attach it to the `req` object for further use in the route-handlers. For instance, this middleware is used with "logoutUser()" controller to clear the cookies (Access Token and Refresh Token) first from the DB (only Refresh Token), then from the client (both tokens) by using `res.clearCookie()` method, to log-out the user from the application.
21. "Aggregation Pipeline" in MongoDB is a powerful framework for data aggregation and transformation, which allows us to perform complex data manipulations and computations on the documents in a collection. It consists of a series of stages that process the data sequentially, where each stage performs a specific operation on the input documents and passes the result to the next stage. Some common stages in the aggregation pipeline are `$match` (to filter documents), `$lookup` (to perform a left outer join with another collection), `$addFields` (to add new fields to the documents), and `$project` (to specify the fields to include or exclude in the output). The aggregation pipeline is used for various purposes like data analysis, reporting, and transforming the data into a desired format. It provides a flexible and efficient way to work with the data in MongoDB, and it's widely used in real-world applications for complex data processing tasks. I've used it in the "getUserChannelProfile()" controller to get the channel's information which a user has visited.
22. Mongoose is responsible for converting the "id" of documents in MongoDB from "ObjectId" type to "string" and vice-versa, whenever when we add or receive documents from MongoDB. However, to manually convert a string to ObjectId, we can use `Types.ObjectId()` method of mongoose instance, and to convert an ObjectId to string, we can use `toString()` method of the ObjectId instance. This is useful when we want to perform operations that require the "id" in a specific format, like when we want to compare the "id" of a document with a string value, or when we want to store the "id" as a string in another collection.
23. We can also define nested aggregation pipelines in MongoDB, by using "pipeline" option in the `$lookup` stage, which allows us to perform a sub-aggregation on the joined collection. This is useful when we want to perform complex data manipulations and computations on the joined collection before joining it with the main collection. For instance, check out the "getWatchHistory()" controller where I have defined a nested aggregation pipeline to populate the "owner" field of the "video" field in the "watchHistory" collection, which is joined with the "users" collection using `$lookup` stage.
24. To make a field in MongoDB document refer to a document of different collections, instead of a single collection (which is the case with "ref" property), we can use "refPath" property, which allows us to specify the name of the document's field that contains the collection name whose document the field is referring to. But the secondary field should consists of valid collection name as its value, to avoid error due to referring to a non-existing collection. For ex: in the "like" collection, I have used "contentType" field with "enum" to specify the collection name ("video", "comment", or "tweet"), and this is the field which is referred in the "refPath" property of the "content" field, to make it refer to the document of the collection specified in the "contentType" field. This is called "**Dynamic Referencing**" in MongoDB, and it's useful when we want to create a relationship between documents of different collections without having to specify the collection name in the schema definition, which provides more flexibility in the data modeling.